Back to HomePage

__Thanks to Wikipedia: ^^__
All these definitions come from Wikipedia. I've only regrouped some sentences together here to refer to it more easily.

---

*Criteria* : Criteria is an Hibernate API. Hibernate provides an SQL inspired language called Hibernate Query Language (HQL) which allows SQL-like queries to be written against Hibernate's data objects. Criteria Queries are provided as an object-oriented alternative to HQL.

*CRUD* : In computer programming, __create, read, update and delete__ are the four basic functions of persistent storage.

*DAO* : *Data Access Object* is an object that provides an abstract interface to some type of database or persistence mechanism. Act as an intermediary between your application and the database. Modifications can be made to the DAO implementation without altering other decoupled modules of the application.

*EJB entity* : *Enterprise Java Bean* specification intends to provide a standard way to implement the back-end 'business' code typically found in enterprise applications (as opposed to 'front-end' interface code). Such code addresses the same types of problems, and solutions to these problems are often repeatedly re-implemented by programmers. Enterprise JavaBeans are intended to handle such common concerns as persistence, transactional integrity, and security in a standard way, leaving programmers free to concentrate on the particular problem at hand. CMP (Container Managed Persistence) or BMP (Bean Managed Persistence). Note that the current EJB 3.1 specification does not detail how an application server provides persistence (a task delegated to the JPA specification), but instead details how business logic can easily integrate with the persistence services offered by the application server. Gradually an industry consensus emerged that the original EJB specification's primary virtue — enabling transactional integrity over distributed applications — was of limited use to most enterprise applications, and the functionality delivered by simpler frameworks like Spring and Hibernate was more useful.

*Hibernate* : Hibernate is an object-relational mapping (ORM) library for the Java language, providing a framework for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database. Distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License, Hibernate provides transparent persistence for Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs). Hibernate can be used both in standalone Java applications and in Java EE applications using servlets, EJB session beans, and JBI service components. Hibernate provides an SQL inspired language called Hibernate Query Language (HQL) which allows SQL-like queries to be written against Hibernate's data objects. 

*JEE* : __Java Platform, Enterprise Edition__ or Java EE is Oracle's enterprise java computing platform. The platform provides an API and runtime environment for developing and running enterprise software, including network and web services, and other large-scale, multi-tiered, scalable, reliable, and secure network applications. Java EE extends the Java Platform, Standard Edition (Java SE), providing an API for fault-tolerance, object-relational mapping, distributed and multi-tier architectures, and web services. The platform incorporates a design based largely on modular components running on an application server. Software for Java EE is primarily developed in the Java programming language and uses XML for configuration. A Java EE Application server includes an EJB container by default.

*Hierarchical database* : A hierarchical database model is a data model in which the data is organized into a tree-like structure. The structure allows representing information using parent/child relationships: each parent can have many children, but each child has only one parent (also known as a 1-to-many relationship). All attributes of a specific record are listed under an entity type. In a database an entity type is the equivalent of a table. Each individual record is represented as a row, and each attribute as a column. Entity types are related to each other using 1:N mappings, also known as one-to-many relationships. This model is recognized as the first database model created by IBM in the 1960s. DL1, IMS, Adabas are hierarchical databases. 

*JDBC* : *Java DataBase Connectivity* is a Java-based data access technology. This technology is an API for the Java programming language that defines how a client may access a database. It provides methods for querying and updating data in a database. JDBC is oriented towards relational databases. A JDBC-to-ODBC bridge enables connections to any ODBC-accessible data source in the JVM host environment. 

*JDO* : *Java Data Object* is a specification of Java object persistence. One of its features is a transparency of the persistent services to the domain model. JDO persistent objects are ordinary Java programming language classes (POJOs); there's no requirement for them to implement certain interfaces or extend from special classes. other specifications for persistence are EJB entity and JPA.

*JPA* : *Java Persistence API* is a Java programming language framework managing relational data in applications using Java Platform, Standard Edition and Java Platform, Enterprise Edition. A persistence entity is a lightweight Java class whose state is typically persisted to a table in a relational database. Instances of such an entity correspond to individual rows in the table. Entities typically have relationships with other entities, and these relationships are expressed through object/relational metadata. Object/relational metadata can be specified directly in the entity class file by using annotations, or in a separate XML descriptor file distributed with the application. The Java Persistence API replaces the persistence solution of EJB 2.0 CMP (Container Managed Persistence). The Java Persistence API was developed in part to unify the Java Data Objects API, and the EJB 2.0 Container Managed Persistence (CMP) API. As of 2009 most products supporting each of those APIs support the Java Persistence API. The Java Persistence API specifies relational persistence (ORM: Object relational mapping) only for RDBMS (although providers exist who support other datastores). The Java Data Objects specification(s) provides relational persistence (ORM), as well as persistence to other types of datastores.

*lazy loading* : A design pattern commonly used in computer programming to defer initialization of an object until the point at which it is needed by a program or application. It can contribute to efficiency in the program's operation if properly and appropriately used. Initialization of object or resource is not done in beginning as it is done in Eager Loading which is the opposite of lazy loading. Example: Webpage can be designed to load all images before rendering and displaying of the page.

*Persistence* : in computer science refers to the characteristic of state that outlives the process that created it. Without this capability, state would only exist in RAM, and would be lost when this RAM loses power, such as a computer shutdown. This is achieved in practice by storing the state as data in non-volatile storage such as a hard drive or flash memory. Standard API for data persistence with Java are : JDBC, JDO, EJB and JPA. Some frameworks are : Hibernate, Toplink, Apache OJB.

*OODBMS* : *object-oriented database management system* is a database management system in which information is represented in the form of objects as used in object-oriented programming. When database capabilities are combined with object-oriented programming language capabilities, the result is an OODBMS witch allow object-oriented programmers to develop the product, store them as objects, and replicate or modify existing objects to make new objects within the OODBMS. Because the database is integrated with the programming language, the programmer can maintain consistency within one environment, in that both the OODBMS and the programming language will use the same model of representation. Relational DBMS projects, by way of contrast, maintain a clearer division between the database model and the application. Also known as *systèmes de gestion de base de données objet* (*SGBDO*) in french.

*Object-Relational mapping* : *ORM*, *O/RM*, and *O/R mapping* in computer software is a programming technique for converting data between incompatible type systems in object-oriented programming languages. This creates, in effect, a "virtual object database" that can be used from within the programming language. 

*POJOs* : *Plain Old Java Object* is used to emphasize that a given object is an ordinary Java Object, not a special object. The term "POJO" is mainly used to denote a Java object which does not follow any of the major Java object models, conventions, or frameworks. The term continues the pattern of older terms for technologies that do not use fancy new features, such as POTS (Plain Old Telephone Service) in telephony, and PODS (Plain Old Data Structures) that are defined in C++ but use only C language features, and POD (Plain Old Documentation) in Perl. The POJO phenomenon has most likely gained widespread acceptance because of the need for a common and easily understood term that contrasts with complicated object frameworks.

*RDBMS* : *relational database management system* is a database management system (DBMS) that is based on the relational model. Exemples : MySQL, PosgreSQL, HSQLDB, Derby. Also known as *système de gestion de base de données relationnelle* (*SGBDR*) in french. 

*Spring* : An open source application framework and Inversion of Control container for the Java platform...

*Toplink* : An object-relational mapping (ORM) package for Java developers. It provides a framework for storing Java objects in a relational database or for converting Java objects to XML documents. TopLink Essentials is the reference implementation of the EJB 3.0 Java Persistence API (JPA) and the open-source community edition of Oracle's TopLink product. TopLink Essentials is a limited version of the proprietary product. For example, TopLink Essentials doesn't provide cache synchronization between clustered applications, some cache invalidation policy, and query Cache.

*XDBMS* : *XML DataBase Management System* is a management system for XML database : data persistence software system that allows data to be stored in XML format. This data can then be queried, exported and serialized into the desired format. XML databases are usually associated with document-oriented databases.


